Welcome back.
In this video we'll learn how to remove elements from the dumb when those elements are no longer bound
to data.
In the last video we use the Enter method to access elements that D-3 create on the fly when it needs
to bind data to things that don't exist yet in the dome.
There's an analogous method called Exit which we can use to target elements that should be removed from
the DOM.
Let's take a look at how this function works.
We'll pick up where we left off.
Here's a link to the code for the current state of our app along with the live site.
As you can see we've got some movie quotes displayed on the page along with some styling based on the
movie data all using D-3.
Suppose now that we want to remove our Finding Nemo quote from the page we could use D-3 to select that
element and move it.
But then our page would be out of sync with our data.
Since the code to array would still have the quote in it a more common approach is to let the data be
the single source of truth and then update the view.
So let's do that since Finding Nemo was the last movie in the array.
We can call pop to remove it.
This removes the finding the market from our dataset but we still see it on the page.
Next we'll need to update the data binded to tell D-3 to remove any list items that no longer have a
corresponding piece of data.
Take a look at what happens when we update the data binding.
Here the theory is going to do something we haven't seen before.
It keeps track of the four allies that should remain on the page inside of the group's property but
what about the last ally.
It turns out that this applies to the property since there there's no data to be matched to it.
D-3 thinks that this element should be slated for removal.
Don't worry about the fact that this is an array with five elements the other values are all undefined.
Just like when we gain access to the enter selection by calling enter we can gain access to the exit
selection by calling exit and once we have that exit selection we can go ahead and remove it.
Great.
So far so good.
Now let's throw a bit of a wrench in this technique.
Suppose that instead of removing the last quote We want to remove all quotes that come from R-rated
movies.
First update our ratings filter out.
Any movie with an R rating.
Now let's do what we did before buying this array of data to the allies and then remove the extra elements.
There's a problem we didn't actually remove that you already quoted from the dome we just removed the
last two list items from the unordered list.
So what's going on here.
Interestingly if we select all of the allies and call data on our selection we could see that the data
is correct.
There are no R rated quotes in here.
So what went wrong.
The issue here has to do with how data gets bound to elements and D-3 by default data is joined to elements
on the page by index.
The first element in the non r post array is matched to the first list item.
The second element in the non r quotes array is matched to the second list item and so on.
This means that the first three elements on the page get matched with the three quotes and the last
to list items get moved to the exit selection.
Since there is no data left over for them but the last element on the page have a quote that we want
to keep.
There are two ways to fix this problem.
One is to restyled the elements after we've joined the new data using the same code as we have for this
work since after this new join.
The first three allies will have the correct data.
They just need to have their styles in our text modified to reflect this new data.
But there also a simpler approach.
Essentially we encountered this problem because D-3 didn't know that it should be removing list items
based on the contents of the quotes.
It just knew there were three quotes left in so I removed the last two elements.
When we joined data elements however we can also specify how the three should match state and elements
together.
We do this by passing what's called a key function in the second perimeter to the DOT data method.
The return value from the key function is then what to use to match elements with data rather than the
default behavior of match by index.
In our example we can make sure we remove the correct list item by using the quote itself as the key
in the key function.
This works but why.
In this case the key function tells D-3 that the first element in the quotes array should be natural
with whatever list item corresponds to that quote and so on for a second and third quotes when data
is found.
This way the two list items that any data will be precisely the list items containing R rated quotes.
Now that you know how to use D-3 to add and remove elements based on data let's learn about a general
pattern for updating DOM elements using the 3.
I'll meet you in the next video.